When you first learn the zip function, it may seem like a lot of fun and you may think it's irrelevant
since you won't notice a very practical use for it right away.
But if you trust us after learning it, I will show you in which situations it can be super practical.
What zip basically does is combine two or more lists, interlinking their elements in tuples.
Let's suppose that I have the names list on the side, in the age list on the other.
If I use zip and pass as arguments the names of my two lists, what I will obtain is a list of tuples
in which one element of each list has been put together in order.
There are some considerations to take into account, but Federico will be able to explain them better
in PY charm.
And the best way to explain things is usually with examples.
So here we are in charm inside our file called Zip.
And I have two lists, one file with three names Hannah, Bruce and Tony, and another list with three
ages.
Well, we're going to use zip, as we said, to be able to integrate these two lists in one that has
a table for each pair of values.
Hannah with the first stage, Bruce with the second and Tony with the third.
The way we're going to do it is by implementing a variable.
This is going to be called combination.
It is going to be equal to zip, which is the magic word in this lecture.
And the arguments that zip demands are the names of the lists that we're going to combine.
Actually, the names of any collectible we want to continue.
They can be tables or it can be a dictionary.
So we say that the first list is names, a comma.
The second one is ages, and we already have our combination ready.
What do you think it will look like, this combination, once we print it?
I think you're going to be surprised if you expect to see it ready, because actually it is not going
to be like that.
So let's run zip.
And what we get is a mention here from Python telling us there's a zip object in such and such place.
Of course, this is not what we wanted to see.
This is not what our object should look like.
What we have to do is to be able to see it as cast into a list.
We're going to enclose all of this in a parenthesis, and we're going to say that this is a list.
We want to see a list.
And now if we print it, we have a list that has three tables.
And the first one there is Hannah with 65, Bruce with 29, and Tony with 42.
Something interesting to see is this If I add one more element to any of these lists, for example,
if I add one more number in age, what do you think will happen?
Let's see.
Let's run it.
So actually nothing happened because what Zipp does is to go to the length of the shortest list.
If we have a list of three elements and another of four, it is going to make three tables and the remaining
ones in the longest list, it is going to ignore them.
Also, as Phil told you in the introduction, it cannot be only two, but even more lists that can be
combined with zip.
So we will create here a variable called cities.
And let's include cities like New York.
What a city.
And I'd London one of my favorites of course, and also Berlin.
Amazing days I've spent in that incredible place, actually.
I know we have tons of students in those cities and so many other areas.
And I want to say I love all you guys and girls.
Thank you for being here with us.
Well, let's continue here.
We have three beautiful cities.
And what if I combine these three lists using zip?
I also have to add here cities and I print them.
And now we want longer tables.
We have Hannah, 65, New York, Bruce, 29, London, and Tony, 42, Berlin.
And this may seem just like an interesting curiosity, but you may think that it has not much real life
use for it, because it does not seem that it has something that we're going to use frequently in our
code.
But I'm going to show you that this becomes really useful if you want to create it.
For example, a loop where we're going to print phrases that continue all the elements of our lists.
Well, look how easy it's going to be to make this.
If I write that for each name, age and city that exists inside combination, we're going to be able
to print it.
And we're going to build a literal chain, a chain that says, for example, the name of the person
name is.
And here we put the age and we complete the sentence with the words years old and lives in, and we
put the city here.
So if I print this, what we get is three sentences that say Hannah is 65 years old and lives in New
York.
Bruce is 29 years old and lives in London, and Tony is 42 years old and lives in Berlin.
So look how easily and elegantly we've been able to create a system that doesn't require us to look
up in the indexes of each of the elements as we would have had to do if we didn't know zip.
And it actually does it once we've declared the variables in two short lines, this is really, really,
really useful.
So zip, learn it and then practice it in the exercises that follow.
And I'm already going to the next lecture waiting to teach you other things that are just as interesting.
See you there.